*************
Cyclid UI 0.2
*************

.. contents::

Upgrading
=========

Refer to the standard instructions for :ref:`upgrading <upgrading>` from a
previous release of Cyclid.

v0.2.5
======

Highlights
----------

A small release, mostly intended to add some features required by the hosted
version of Cyclid.

Changes
-------

- Add an API that flushes the caches User object, which can be used to force a
  refresh whenever the user changes E.g. adding or removing an Organization.
- Redirect to / on API authentication failure, rather than directly to /login
- Add a "Catch all" route that redirects unknown locations to /
- Fix the generated Cyclid Client configuration files.
- Slight modifications to the session cookies.

v0.2.4
======

Highlights
----------

Support for login redirects, as well as some minor bug fixes & improvements.

Changes
-------

- Attempt to redirect the user to the original target after login.
- If signup mode is enabled display an Introduction page if the user does not
  belong to any organizations.
- Insert the users HMAC secret when they download their client configuration
  file.

v0.2.3
======

Highlights
----------

Minor bug-fixes and improvments.

Changes
-------

- Allow the user to set SESSION_SECRET and COOKIE_SECRET as seperate
  environment variables and set COOKIE_SECRET to a default value if one isn't
  set in the environemnt to offer a basic level of protection to the JWT
  cookie.

v0.2.2
======

Highlights
----------

Some UI & authentication improvements. Both the server & client side
Javascript now handle invalid or expired authentication tokens far more
gracefully, forcing re-authentication when necessary.

Changes
-------

- Improve invalid/revoked/expired JWT token handling

  * Add exception handling around the ``Users`` model.
  * Fail authentication if the user can not be retrieved.
  * Delete the JWT cookie when the user is unauthenticated.
  * Catch common authentication issues client-side and force re-authentication
    if an AJAX call fails or returns 401 (Unauthorized)

- Don't display the "Jobs" and "Configuration" links in the navbar if no
  Organization is set (I.e. the User doesn't belong to any Organizations)

Issues closed
-------------

- #21 : Improve invalid token handling

v0.2.1
======

Highlights
----------

Support for the updated hosted Cyclid signups process, and CORS support for
the health API endpoints.

Changes
-------

- CORS support

  * Enable CORS for the ``/health/status`` & ``/health/info`` endpoints so that
    a server can be monitored from a dashboard.

- Further hosted Cyclid integration

  * Display "Create new organization" links in the Organizations menu and on the
    users profile if the ``signups`` URL is configured.

- Configure development instances to run on port 9393 by default.

v0.2.0
======

Highlights
----------

Provide a UI for Cyclid plugin configuration data. Every plugin can define it's
own schema, so forms are generated dynamically, client side, from the schema
information provided from the plugin API.

Changes
-------

- Add organization configs

  * Retrieve the current plugin configurations from the server and provide a
    a form to display & edit the configuration data. Forms are generated
    dynamically from the configuration schema that the plugin itself provides.
  * Currently supported data types are:

    - string
    - password
    - integer
    - hash-list
    - link-relative

- Integrate with hosted Cyclid signups

  * Added the ``signup`` configuration option.
  * Display a "Sign up here" link on the login page if the ``signup``
    configuration option is set.

Issues closed
-------------

- #13 : Page title is not set on login page
