**********
Cyclid 0.2
**********

.. contents::

Upgrading
=========

Refer to the standard instructions for :ref:`upgrading <upgrading>` from a
previous release of Cyclid.

v0.2.5
======

Highlights
----------

Minor bug-fixes and improvments.

Changes
-------

- Remove the ``logout`` method from the SSH transport so that we don't
  needlessly run ``exit`` at the end of a build.
- Always run ``apt-get update`` first in Ubuntu & Debian provisioners so that
  the cache is up to date before attempting to install anything.
- Fix a bug in the Github plugin so that it pulls from the correct upstream
  repository when a Pull Request is opened from a forked repository.
- Let the user (or a script) pass the initial admin user secret & password to
  ``cyclid-db-init``

Issues closed
-------------

- #94 : Github PR events fail to clone if the PR comes from a fork

v0.2.4
======

Highlights
----------

This release reorganizes most of the Builder plugins, and enables support for
the new `LXD <https://github.com/Cyclid/Cyclid-lxd-plugin>`_ &
:ref:`Google <google>` Builder plugins in addition to the previous
`Digitalocean <https://github.com/Cyclid/Cyclid-digitalocean-plugin>`_ plugin.

Thanks to the new LXD plugin, the dependency on the Mist LXC driver has been
removed.

Changes
-------

- Remove the **mist** plugin

  * Move the **mist** Builder to it's own plugin Gem.
  * Remove any dependencies on Mist

- Add the :ref:`google Builder plugin <google>`

  * Creates build hosts as Google Compute (GCE) instances.

- Add the :ref:`log Action plugin <log-plugin>` that writes a message to the
  Job log.
- Some improvements and fixes for the LXD Builder plguin

  * :ref:`ubuntu` & :ref:`debian` plugins

    + Don't prefix commands with ``sudo``

  * **ssh** plugin

    + Prepend ``sudo -E`` to commands if the user is *not* ``root``

  * Pass the Job context to Transport plugins.
  * Make sure the Job record ``log`` database column is at least 16MB 
    (I.e. a column type of ``MEDIUMTEXT`` on MySQL)
  * Split out some of the RSpec test framework so that it can be used
    by plugins to run their own tests against a full Cyclid server.

- Proper support for database upgrades

  * Add the ``cyclid-db-migrate`` command and all of the ActiveRecord
    migrations to the Gem. Database migrations will be run "standalone"
    from the ``cyclid-db-migrate`` command.

v0.2.3
======

Highlights
----------

This is a maintenance release to fix a dependency conflict with the new
Digitalocean Builder plugin, with no functional changes from the v0.2.2
release.

v0.2.2
======

Highlights
----------

A complete overhaul of the API plugin framework so that plugins can now
create their own arbitary API endpoints.

The re-written :ref:`github` plugin use this new functionality to provide
support for Github OAuth: Cyclid can now obtain a Github organization
OAuth token to authenticate with Github. The plugin also now uses the
official `Octokit Gem <https://github.com/octokit/octokit.rb>`_ to access
the Github API, and adds support for ``push`` events.

There's also additional functionality that the Cyclid UI makes use of
for managing plugin configurations.

Changes
-------

- Cyclid UI integration

  * Add the ``GET /organizations/:organization/configs`` endpoint to
    return a list of plugins which have configurations.
  * Add the ``Plugins::Base.config?`` method to indicate if a plugin
    supports configuration.
  * Add the "password" data type and use it where a configuration item
    is a password.

- Support for real plugins

  * Load any Cyclid plugins found in other Gems (E.g. anything under
    ``cyclid/plugins/``

- Overhaul the API plugin framework

  * Still provide the default routes (``GET PUT POST DELETE
    /organizations/:organization/confis/:type/:plugin``) but also allow
    plugins to add *additional* endpoints underneath
  * Clean up processesing for the default routes.
  * Provide the helper methods ``organization_name`` to obtain the current
    name and ``retrieve_organization`` to retrieve the Organization object
    inside of an API plugin.

- Rewrite the :ref:`github API plugin <github>`

  * Replace hand-rolled API processing with the Octokit Gem.
  * Add Github OAuth support

    + Add the additional API endpoints to support the Github Web OAuth
      process flow.
    + Set an Organization OAuth token if a user completes the OAuth flow
      with Github.

  * Add support for the ``push`` event.
  * Re-factor everything

    + Remove the unused ``hmac_secret`` configuration item.

- Speed up package installation

    * Pass the entrie list of packages to the Provisioner plugin instead
      of iterating over them and calling the Provisioner multiple times,
      once per. package.
    * The Ubuntu & Debian Provisioners pass the list of packages to ``apt``
      as a single list.

v0.2.1
======

Highlights
----------

Source URL deduplication. This solves the issue where a Github Pull Request
event would provide a URL to the branch to be built which conflicts with the
URL provided in the Job file; Cyclid will now make an effort to remove
duplicates, while maintaining relevent information such as which branch to
build.

Changes
-------

- Improve "Source" processing

  * Group sources from the job by "type" and pass them each group to the
    approrpiate plugin as a single list.
  * :ref:`git` plugin

    + Attempt to deduplicate the list of repositories by normalizing each
      URL and then comparing the normalized URLs to find duplicates.

Issues closed
-------------

- #53 : Add a test/monitoring endpoint
- #67 : De-dup "source" locations

v0.2.0
======

Highlights
----------

Major support for the new Cyclid UI, including `CORS <http://enable-cors.org/>`_
support to allow access to the Cyclid API from a web browser AJAX request, and
`JWT <https://jwt.io/>`_ authentication.

Changes
-------

- Cyclid UI integration

  * Enable CORS across the API so that the UI can perform AJAX requests.
  * Re-write the placeholder "token" authentication method to support proper
    JWT token authentication.
  * Add a ``POST /token/:username`` endpoint to retrieve a JWT token.
  * Move the Cyclid API configuration under the ``server`` declarationin the
    configuration file so that Cyclid UI can use the same configuration file with
    its own namespace.

- Add the ``GET /:organization/jobs`` endpoint that returns a list of jobs

  * The request can include search parameters to filter results. Supported parameters
    are:

    + s_name      - Return jobs matching the name
    + s_status    - Return jobs matching the status
    + s_from      - Return jobs started on or after the date
    + s_to        - Return jobs started on or before the date
    + limit       - Maximum number of jobs to return
    + offset      - First job record to return
    + stats_only  - Don't return any job details

- Add a real name field to users

- Add a healthcheck framework

  * Add the ``GET /health/status`` and ``GET /health/info`` endpoints. ``status``
    returns either a 200 (OK) or 503 (ERROR) response, and can be used for a load
    balancer healthcheck. ``info`` always returns a 200 response, with a JSON body
    with healthcheck information, and can be used by a server status dashboard.
  * Plugins can implement the ``#status`` method if they have external dependencies;
    the healthcheck framework will call the ``#status`` method of every plugin and
    collates the results, so an individual plugin can indicate an error or warning.

- Re-factor the source

  * Rename ``lib`` to ``app``
  * Provide a proper initialization file under ``lib`` that middleware can
    ``require`` from the Gem

Issues closed
-------------

- #5  : Stage success/failure handlers are not automatically included & serialized
- #61 : Job "Ended" time not being set on success
- #59 : Usage of SHA-1 for HMAC
