**********
Cyclid 0.4
**********

.. contents::

Upgrading
=========

Refer to the standard instructions for :ref:`upgrading <upgrading>` from a
previous release of Cyclid.

v0.4.0
======

Highlights
----------

Improved error handling of invalid job definitions, complete with on-the-fly
linting and error reporting, and generally better internal error handling.

Use of ``sudo`` has generally been cleaned up, and Transports will now only use
``sudo`` when explitely requested. A new ``sudo`` flag has been added to Action
plugins where it is useful.

Plugins can now provide metadata about themselves and a new ``/plugins`` API
endpoint allows clients to retrieve information about the available plugins.

Changes
-------

- Add the ``#metadata``, ``#version``, ``#author``, ``#license`` &
  ``#homepage`` methods to the Plugin base class, and implement an
  appropriate ``#metadata`` method for all of the core plugins.
- Add the ``/plugins`` API endpoint to return metadata about all of the
  available plugins.
- Modify the Transport#exec method to take additional arguments as a hash and
  modify calling code to pass the ``path`` and ``sudo`` arguments in the hash,
  as required.
- In both the Docker & Github Transports only prepend commands with ``sudo`` if
    a) The user is not already ``root``
    b) The ``sudo`` flag has been specifically passed
- Use the Linter (In Cyclid-core) to lint every job definition before creating
  a new job, and reject any jobs which produce one or more errors (warnings are
  ignored)
- Significantly improve exception handling around job dispatch, and ensure that
  we handle exceptions & return appropriate HTTP error messages or Github
  statuses as required.
- Fix a serious bug in the Google Builder where it would accidentally destroy
  the first instance returned by the GCP API, rather than the intended named
  instance.
- Configure the Local Dispatcher & associated Sidekiq worker to use the
  ``cyclid_jobs`` named Redis queue, rather than the ``default`` queue.
- Add the current Thread ID to every log message, to make it easier to
  trace/debug things like Sidekiq workers.

